My honor to introduce derek halpern to the stage
And we first came across derek halpern during a meeting with milker where he was teaching us the fine arts of reducing discounts
He pops up a video and pulled up YouTube and there was Derek telling us about
how to reduce discounts and it was great fantastic we said who is this guy
So when we were looking at speakers and things that we could do that were innovative and innovative types of people
Derek was the first on the list so
Derek is all about helping sales people make more sales
Forbes has named him as an expert on consumer psychology and
Inc has named him one to follow in 2015
So if you've ever done a youtube search on sales advice he would show up and many of you have probably already seen him
He's reached over five million
viewers and
I've got like 200 Facebook friends so in comparison. That's a big difference so
It's my privilege to introduce Derek Halpern to the stage there
What's up
It's kind of a tough spot to be standing between you and dinner
learning about an exotic trip and
A Great Gatsby party because I don't know about you. I'd rather save her champagne bottles than listen to another person speak after four days
And
What I think makes this even tougher is I suspect some of you aren't that friendly?
Yesterday I
Got to LA walked in the hotel saw April
April said oh you're here. Just in time. We're having lunch. Why don't you go out get some food and meet some of the reps?
Sure
so I walk outside I walk up to the first table that I see I see four empty chairs and
I asked this this nice man to my right. It's the DJ. I
Asked him hey is anyone sitting here. Do you mind if I sit here? He kind of looks up slowly?
huh
All right, maybe it's gnar like that it was more like
Huh, I guess he didn't want me to sit next to him so I walked away
It turned out he didn't know I was speaking today, and I really don't blame him I
was wearing a black t-shirt and black sweatpants and
I didn't have a badge around my neck for all he knew I was trying to scam a free lunch
so I understand why he did that and
as salespeople
We kind of all understand this type of reaction I mean
Have you ever walked into a dental office?
Introduce yourself and the office managers snarled at you say yes
Yes
That's probably where he learned how to do that snarl actually
So I understand why he did that?
But as salespeople
We need to push through that first reaction
We need to turn someone who is being a little bit difficult
Into someone who will eventually give us some money for something
We need to turn a difficult prospect into a raving
Customer and that's what we're gonna talk about today
The side liners how to turn difficult prospects into raving customers
So let's get started
Imagine that this is a book about
dental implants now imagine on your next sales call
You walk into the dentist's office
prepared for a one on one
But you get stifled by the gatekeeper so you leave the booklet behind has this happened yes, yes
but now
Let's imagine that a few hours later
You get a phone call it's the surgeon on the line and she
wants the place of
$50,000 order
The first question is is what's in that booklet? How did this turn this difficult prospect?
into a raving customer and
How did it happen without ever talking to that person?
Without doing anything other than just leaving the booklet
This sounds like a weird scenario has this ever happened to you. No, right
almost never
But this is exactly how I learned how to sell and it's how I sell the stuff that I sell today
Just to walk you through it quickly
Here's a little bit of insight into my business
People will go to my website, and I will ask them to sign up to a newsletter
And I'll try to give them something like a free ebook in
exchange for signing up to my newsletter
I'll then send them valuable content like a blog post or video
There similar to the video that they used to find me in the first place
And I'll maybe send them some more videos, and then eventually
After a few weeks, I'll ask them to buy something
Now how do I ask them to buy something? I'm not calling them up. I'm sending them to a page that
It's about 30 pages long
So I'll get you on my mailing list
I'll send you free videos and content, then eventually I'm going to ask you to read a 30-page long page
That's how all my sales get generated a lot of people think
Well who reads that much and I always tell them
Only the buyers the people who want to buy this the people who you're talking to but
still
While it works really well you have to be very strategic about it and don't get me wrong
It works really well every single day of the week this happens people opt into a newsletter
They get free content over the course of a few weeks
And I ask them to buy something and this is like an example
This is from a week ago when I was putting this slide together. Just a random day of sales of twelve thousand dollars came in
Automatically just by sending these people to these long pages
Using this like magic booklet to convert a difficult prospect into a customer
Now you're probably wondering well first. You don't sell things on the Internet, so what does this have to do with you?
Well the same process I use
to sell stuff online
can also be used to make each and every one of you a better salesperson and
Maybe you'll even create that dental booklet one day that closes the sale for you, so you don't have to
Now I want to share more about that in a second first. I want to introduce myself a little bit. I'm Derek Halpern
I'm the founder of social triggers, and I started this company about three years ago when I grew it to a multi-million dollar company
I'm not sharing this to brag
I'm just showing you that I know how to sell and that's what I've been doing for the last by eight years of my life
And how do I do this I leverage the proven sales principles? I'm going to share today
Plus I also create a bunch of YouTube videos. This is how I get people's attention
It's how I got April's attention, and I think it was melting who found my first video and shared it around with everyone
There's a video about why I think discounting is for idiots
And this is the video that they shared then that's why I'm here speaking today
Just to give you some numbers
about
175,000 people subscribe to my newsletter and even though, and I've reached over 5 million people and my original bio is 2.5 million
But I checked this morning. It was more than 5 million and
Here's what I've discovered. I can tell you one thing for certain. I've got
63 thousand fans on Facebook which is 10,000 more than Nobel biocare?
No one I can tell you this is does not correlate to how much money you make
Cuz if I was making no Abell money
I would have a gold chain with the golden statue out of myself hanging from my neck right now
But the bottom line is I'm sales guy, and I live and die by my ability to persuade people to give me money now
When you sell you probably hear things like
why should I buy this from you when I could find the same thing for cheaper have you heard this before say yes or
Maybe I don't need this right now
I already use something similar, and it works yes, yes
How do I know I can trust you and your company if you heard this before?
yes, I
Heard something bad about your products, and I'll never use them
Whether or not. It's true
There's always someone that's gonna try and rain on your product parade right
What are some other examples does anyone else have any other examples of things they've heard or?
Reasons why people don't buy shoot your hand up
That guy in the back
Right there in the yellow. I think or on my blinds
No I
Mean we've all got it the list goes on whether its price we're too expensive
Yeah, or just like what you said. There's you know that we wouldn't get the same thing for cheaper
Uh-huh or it's you know I'm upset about a past experience of course there's another one that
Way I don't like you I hear that all the time we're gonna get some closer a minute I
Don't want to switch right now retiring soon anyway
So sorry I didn't hear you. I'm retiring soon anyway. I'm retiring soon anyway
It's like it's an excuse to not learn how to do your job better almost very interesting
now
While some we can make fun of these comments. We can laugh about them and
We know they're not true
Just because they say them doesn't mean it's true and just because they believe them doesn't mean it's true
And it's our job to try and convince these people otherwise
But in what I do, I almost never hear that
All I get is something like 700 people visit my website and seven people bought six hundred and ninety three people didn't
They have an objection. I don't hear it if they have any questions
They'll just answer it themselves and X out my website, and they'll never come back. I don't get to have that interaction
So now how can my experience with selling which is
almost seemingly totally different from yours
How can this help you be a better salesperson?
Well, this is the system that I use
but before I build this I
take the time to research my customer and
My goal is to know him better than he knows himself
my goal is if I ever sat down with one of my prospects and they're considering to purchase one of my products I
Literally want to be able to talk to that person and know all their answers that they're gonna say
before they even start to say it and
In what I do, it's essential that I do this because I don't get to have that conversation
I can't answer anything on the fly I
have to know what they're wondering before it happens I
Have to know their hopes their dreams their fears, and what their objections are
If I don't do this, I'm never gonna make any sales and today. I want to show you
What I discovered about why people buy and?
What I discovered about why people don't buy and as you'll soon see it applies to everyone?
Now there are three types of people who you will encounter when you're selling and
To really bring this to life, I want to show you some examples
Here's one type of person you will encounter so reply to an email
someone saw me speak at a conference and they were like oh you're just as bitey in real life if I ask this person to
Buy something I'm going to get them to buy it this can be very easy that person is a buyer
The second type of person you'll encounter are people like this
I spoke at this event called social media marketing world that person loved my presentation
This person was also in the audience and she decided to give me some feedback
After hearing him speak. I thought he was arrogant and an elitist basically, and I'm sad to see his true colors
She hates me if I ever ask this person to buy anything. There's no way I can convince them to give me money ever
so there's two people the buyers the non buyers, and there's a third type of person a person that I call a
Side liner as you can see here's what they said I hate to admit it
But I was a little skeptical of you when I first started following your blog. I almost removed myself from your list
It's a side liner
But I gave you a shot and now I realize that I actually like you. I turned a side liner into a buyer
now
This is an interesting idea because the side liners are the difficult prospects
But if you know how to talk to them the right way
You can turn them into one of your best customers
They're the difficult prospects that you could turn into your best customers
There are some people you will never win with and you all know better to just stop talking to that person maybe
You'll contact him every few months
Just in case they had to change a heart or maybe you're hoping that they had a bad experience with another company
But you know deep down that person is never gonna deal with you, and you try not to waste your time
That's the instant non buyer
Then there's the people who already know you already like you all their friends
Already like you and you know that person is gonna be very easy to persuade to buy
But you're gonna find that most people you encounter are gonna. Be these side liners
the people who
Need a little push
Before they're ready to give you money
Now as I said?
There's the three type of people the instant non buyers, and I always view all sales on a chart that I call the yes line
The closer you are to the yes line the more likely you are to buy
The further you are from the yes line the less like you are to buy
The instant bought nine buyers are obviously way below the yes line the instant buyers are very close to it the side liners are right
In the middle these are the people you can convert if you put your mind to it so meet mister doctor nice hair
He currently places a hundred implants each year, and he stops his inventory with a low-priced competitor
Now obviously, it's gonna take some work for you to convince him to spend more money on your implants
But you know that this type of competitive conversion could happen if you talk to him to the right way you start
Explaining the difference we like I think it's chair time
And how that could lead to more chair time on lower quality stuff or whatnot you know you can get if you persist
Here's another example doctor a little bit of hair
He places 75 implants each year
But after talking to him you realize his smallest one is a 3.4. And you have a 3.0
So you might offer him that point-o as a way to get your foot in the door?
But here's someone else that you know that you could potentially turn him from the sidelines to a buyer with some work which
wits with some follow up with some more information and
the third type of person
Will be dr. Lots of hair she places no implants each year, but she wants to start
Again, she might not know the difference between a low-cost provider and a high-cost provider
But these are the people that you might be encountering when you start selling
Now the goal is is to make sure that
When you're prospecting and when you're trying to make these sales
The goal is to make sure you're spending all of your time on
people who are
legitimately
Side liners not Pete you don't want to chase down someone who's never gonna buy I always hear that expression you really
He's so good at selling. He can sell ice to an Eskimo you heard that before yes
Why would you want to do that? I want to sell him heat?
He's a lot easier to sell that guy heat than ice or like I want to sell someone who's drowning some oxygen
That's the guy I want to sell to it's just a lot easier
So you want to make sure in your prospecting you're focusing on selling people what they already want
Now they may not realize they want it yet, but you definitely don't want to trick them into wanting something
They don't want because then they're gonna be unhappy with you
They're gonna talk bad about you, and I guess when I did some pre-work before this conference
I spoke to some territory reps and managers I
Guess all surgeons talk, so you don't want them talking badly about you
Before you even get your foot in the door
Now this is why you do want to focus on these side liners the people who will buy
Because the instant buyers will buy the instant non buyers will never buy the side liners are the people who could buy should buy
But haven't bought yet
Now let's go a little bit deeper
What stop these side liners from buying from you?
Now we kind of went through some of the objections that people have to your products price
Cheaper competitive they're already using someone else and it's working just fine. Why should I fix what's not broken?
we already went through these ideas of what stops people from buying from you, but I
wasn't happy
With those as the only reasons
And the reason why I wasn't happy is because we all know that when someone says something like it's price
There might be something else going on
Maybe they're scared of change
Have you seen this before people were scared of change like the people who?
Don't you know I'm retiring in a few years. Why should I learn something new?
We know there's some deep-seated psychological fears here
and it's not as simple as what they're telling us that face value and
as sales reps
It's up to you to figure out what that is?
Do you all do this yes? Yes?
now after analyzing 17 industries I
discovered that there are four Universal reasons why people don't buy and
I call these reasons the side liners the first one is the indifference
The second is the skeptic the third is the warrior and the fourth is the procrastinator these are the universal reasons?
Why people are trying to not give you money? If you think they should?
Let's go into a little bit more detail on
How these people come to these decisions and then provide you with the tools you need to overcome them
What's artheon different have you ever been on a sales call thinking it would be a perfect fit you
Know they can benefit from what you're offering them
But they're just not seeing it the way you're seeing it has this happened say yes, yes
the indifferent side liners
Aren't buying because they're thinking do I really need this
Or do I even have a problem right now?
Why fix what isn't broken or does this really matter to me?
They might even say something like nobody's ever asked me for an implant before why should I start offering them?
The indifferent doesn't have to remain indifferent
So here's what you have to do if you want to find someone who is indifferent about your products
You want to find something they do care about and then show them how?
What you sell can help them with what they already care about?
It sounds simple, but let me
Give you an example in this hundred-year-old book by Robert Collier
He's a direct mail advertiser if you're ever wanting to learn how to sell studying those dudes from a hundred years ago that?
Got their chops selling by sending people spam mail is a good place to start so if they can convince people to buy you know
Anyone can convince anyone to buy anything?
he talked about this book called the book of etiquette and
When this book was first released in the early 1900's it?
Never sold, no one bought it. No one was going to the store and buying the book of etiquette
Then one day this guy Nelson doubleday bought the rights to the book of etiquette
And he was able to sell a million copies of it
How did he do that how did he take a book that never sold ever it was a dud it was so bad that
The publisher wanted to sell the rights to Nelson immediately
And then as soon as Nelson got his hands on this book she sold a million copies of it
What do you think he did does anyone have any ideas?
Change the cover copy you said or cover
Change the cover
That could be one thing as well
Change the name
These are all things if you change the cover change the name that it could help impact sales because
People buy things based on first impression, just like I got judged at the lunch table because of my sweatpants
People judge books based on book covers. It makes sense, but let me tell you what he did
Instead of telling people here's how to learn the book of etiquette. He told a story in
Direct Mail advertisements that said things like why I cried after the ceremony or
Why they all laughed at me or why she blushed with shame?
The same book how to be proper
He sold by appeal by appealing to people's
deep-seated need
To be liked by their peer groups
The same book went from not selling to selling a million copies and all he did was
Appeal to people's desire to avoid embarrassment
It's kind of interesting how you can turn some a product, that's not selling it all
into one of the best-selling books of that
Time just by changing how you present this book to people?
And the bottom line is
No one wakes up and thinks
Look. I never woke up in the morning and was like hey. I need to get some etiquette in my life
Like I can't remember the last time I ever thought of that ever
But people do worry about being made fun of when you appeal to that innate desire
You can get people to buy and
That's what Doubleday did he made the indifferent who previously didn't care about a book
He made that indifferent person care by changing how he spoke about the book
Let's take it back to dr. Nice hair he uses low-cost implants. He cares about money obviously
Talking science and innovation with him is
Hopeless you can give him
3500 research studies showing how great your product is this guy does not care his haircuts are expensive?
You got to talk money with him to win him over
Now a lot of people and it's not just newer reps that do this I even make this mistake, too
Sometimes we think just because we care about it. They should care about it too and
If you've ever been in an argument with your significant other I know
You've been through this exact same situation
Just because you care in the room doesn't mean the person you're talking to cares
And you want to make sure you're talking to what they care about he likes money talk money
Doctor a little bit of hair has never placed a 3.0. You have a 3.0. He likes money
Well 3.0 is a new income stream. He likes quality of care 3.0. Solves a problem. He currently can't solve
there's different ways to present the products you have to people and
Make sure you're appealing not to here's how great our product is
Here's how great the titanium alloy is for our implants, but instead you're appealing to what he cares about I?
Interviewed about six territory reps before I came here and about a week ago
And I was talking to a Scott Lynch, and I'll have this up later in the presentation, but I was talking to Scott Lynch
And I asked him how did she convince people who would be?
Indifferent or people who don't want to buy ass
and how he would convince them to buy or how would he convinced him to switch from a low-cost implant to a high-cost implant and
he gave a very interesting quote to me and
he said I
Want to find out what he cares about if he has a daughter as an example
I would say you wouldn't send your daughter to college and a beater car
Would you what if she got broken down on the side of the road?
you wouldn't be able to sleep at night and
He said he likes to use these unrelated metaphors as a way to get these people
Thinking about treating their patients better
This is something that you should be doing as well
Now let's go with dr. Lots of hair the same applies
Never talk about what you sell don't talk about all the research and innovation or anything like that
Unless they ask for it if they ask you
Well, how do I know that?
This is a proven implant. That's when you can pull out the riche research and provide it to them
But you don't want to lead with it
And if I were you I would never even take it out of your bag
Unless they specifically asked for it because have you ever tried to read a research paper before
This is what I do for a living. It's boring
It's like the worst thing in the world
Let's keep going
When you find what people care about?
You have to use this knowledge as a way to get people to want to buy and I want to share this experiment with you
Three researchers ran an experiment. They asked mock hotel owners
to create an advertisement for their hotel
and
They let these mock hotel owners know that they have a five-star pool and a three-star restaurant, and they asked them
What would you like to feature in this ad Heisman?
Does anyone have any ideas?
What would you put in this ad raise your hand if you want to try and take a guess?
Would you put the hope would you put the pool the restaurant would you put both of them?
Say again models in the pool
Good that's perfect, but you'd feature the pool and the food you feature both turns out in this research. They asked hundreds of people
72% of people chose the feature both the hotel and the pool in the ad
But here's where things got very interesting
They asked mock customers how much they would pay for a night stay at this hotel
When they saw an ad just for a five star pool they offered twenty six percent more money
Wait a second they see an ad for a hotel
One ad has a five star pool in a three star restaurant the other ad has just a five star pool
They're willing to pay more to just stay at a place that has a five star pool
That doesn't make any sense I mean a five star pool two three-star restaurants better
I mean you don't want to go to someplace as a pool with no food
But it turns out people are willing to pay
More for a hotel that only features a five star pool in a three-star restaurant
Why is that why does that happen?
Well when people see a five star pool in an advertisement, they make assumptions about the rest of the hotel
One of the assumptions, they assume is if it's a five star pool. It's probably got good food, too
But when you feature both of the five star pool and the three-star restaurant they start to average out
How good the hotel is and say well?
Maybe it's not as good as I thought because the food's not that good and they're willing to pay less
Now how does this apply to what you guys are selling?
most salespeople
when they walk into the room they try to
Show off all the great features and benefits of their product, and how this product is going to change people's lives
They want to talk about everything they want to say I want to give them everything
They can so there's no reason why they could say no
but it turns out if you offer too many things and
Especially if you've offered too many things that the person you're talking to doesn't already care about
They're going to discount the importance of the thing you're offering them that they do care about
So once you find that thing that people care about what do you find what makes the indifferent care?
Don't overwhelm him with features and benefits and all these different things
You want to find the one thing he cares about and then you want to focus on that completely nothing else
Until he asks for more information you
want to drill down in that hot button and
Make him care about what you believe you can deliver to him
The second side liner is known as the skeptic now
This I believe is probably one of the more common side liners it being different
If I was in your shoes I would imagine the general practitioners that don't place any implants
Those are the indifferent people right now, and they're the small accounts
They're the people that you don't want to necessarily
Go after too much because it might piss off a surgeon or something like that, but you want to go after them
But they might be more indifferent if you're talking to the surgeons are the periodontists
They might be a little bit more skeptical and what is it skeptic?
How are they different from being different the skeptic doesn't ask so what or why does this matter?
The reason skeptics don't buy is because they're putting a magnifying glass on you
Your business and your products they want to know more about what you're offering them, and they're there
to act as if that what you're offering them is not as good as what you're presenting it as
Have you dealt with skeptics surgeons skeptics yes, yes
They'll say. Who are you? Why should I trust you?
And I believe what you're telling me. How do I know this research is real? You'll tell them
It's peer-reviewed
And they'll say well isn't there a board of people that you can buy, and I'll just go back and forth between all this stuff
Now I talk about psychology research a lot in what I do, and I encounter skeptics a lot
People always ask me. Well. Do you have a PhD in psychology?
And the answer is no I don't
Don't have a PhD in psychology. I actually majored in Shakespeare, which is completely unrelated to psychology
And I tell them that right off the bat. I don't have a PhD in psychology, but here's a deal
I leave the rigorous psychological research to people with masters and PhDs instead I
Specialize in figuring out how this research?
applies to business owners in the real world they can they conduct the stuff in a lab I
conducted on real business and
This usually a lays the skeptics fears or problems with you immediately
Now do you see what I did here
Even though it might seem like common sense
What's really happening is when you know something is is going to be skeptical
You don't want to try and argue with them about it
Because that's just gonna make them more skeptical if they say hey, I don't believe you said oh
You should believe me you're gonna be back and forth and you're gonna get nowhere
However if you come up and just say you're right. I don't have a PhD or you're right
I don't know how they picked the board on that Reese or that peer review board or whatnot?
It makes them fall into
This idea that they're talking to someone who might be similar to them
You're not an adversary because you're agreeing with them
Now let's talk about dr. Nice hair
He uses low-cost implants to persuade him you need to figure out why he's using those implants
Is he skeptical that?
high-cost implants
Aren't really better quality have you ever encountered that with your due with a low-cost implant user and they'll be like well
I've looked at both the low-cost ones in the high cost ones. I just don't see the difference yes
Yeah
Well if that's the case I wouldn't argue with him about the quality of your implants
Don't try to tell him look you're you're wrong right don't say he's wrong
Because he's not gonna listen to anything else you say after that
He's gonna get defensive
Instead you reframe. It first you might want to start with a story and
This is a story again that one of the territory reps shared with me
Well doctor a little bit of hair started using noble bio care. He went with a low-cost provider and
1.5 years later people had complaints about screws loosening
I'm not sure what happened there, but I also heard the same thing happened with dr. Lots of hair
How long have you used your provider?
If you notice what's happening you're not saying that your implants are low quality because he's not going to admit to that
Instead you're just saying hey. I have someone else who used this they had a problem
I know someone else who used it. They had a problem
How long have you been doing this for and it seems like you're not trying to argue with him you're just trying to help
You're trying to figure out. Why is he different than the people you already know?
Now I know a lot of you have these stories of these people
When you bring these stories up to a skeptic
It's always very important to try and name the doctor if you're allowed to do so
Because if you put a real name attached to it
They're more likely to think it's a real story if you just go in there and say oh well
I know all these other people that are having problems
that sounds like you're full of it if
You say this doctor had this problem and this doctor had this problem and this doctor had this problem
You're not how I got to know why what are you doing different?
And you can go in there act curious to try and figure out what's happening, and he's gonna at that point
try and
Understand what's different as well or come to the conclusion that maybe these implants aren't as good as what he thought they were
Now
if this isn't working and
You're still not getting through to him
Don't belabor the point
Don't try to argue with him don't try to show him more stories if it's not working
And it doesn't work after one story or one comment or one thing
Maybe give it two minutes if it's not working you need to switch gears immediately and find something else to talk about
Now I'm not saying you ever agree with him and say alright
maybe your implants are the same quality, but you need to switch gears because
Arguing kills the sale and don't do it
Now when I first started got when I first started selling
You know as loves sales people are type a people we tend to think we know it all this is comes with the job and
I would think that I can just argue people into submission and let me tell you it just never works
It never works
Because arguing kills sales don't do it anymore
Let's keep going we talked about being different we talked about the skeptic the third side liner is the warrior
Now the Warriors a little bit different than the skeptic, but what is that difference?
Well while the skeptic questions you the warrior questions themselves?
They often lack the confidence in themselves, and you need to provide that confidence
And
You might hear these warriors say things along the lines of well that works for them, but it won't work for me or
Maybe they say I'm not sure if I can pull this off. I don't know if I have enough time left
I've been doing it this way for so many years. I'm not sure I can learn something new at this point in my career
Will I feel stupid after I buy this?
I've asked myself that question before pretty much every purchase of that made
Tony Robbins has a really good quote, and I really like this quote
The only thing keeping you from getting what you want are the stories you're telling
Yourself about why you can't have it and the Warriors are experts at telling themselves these stories
Now when you start to hear these stories
You can then we pull back a little bit and realize you're not dealing with an indifferent person anymore they already care about it
You're not dealing with a skeptic person anymore. They already kind of trust the situation now you're dealing with a confidence issue
Now have you ever dealt with anyone?
Who was a little bit shy?
or someone who lacks confidence
Have you ever walked up to them saying? Hey just be confident man does that ever work?
No, or just put yourself out there
This doesn't work, so you can't tell a warrior. Don't worry
That's never gonna make them not worry
instead you need to focus on the specific thing that is stressing them out and
You need to show them why they shouldn't be stressed about it
Let's take it to dr. Lots of hair
There's no way I could start placing implants. I'm too inexperienced, and I've never done it before you
Could say something along the lines of well doctor nice hair thought that what's interesting is that he didn't start placing?
Implants instead he created abutments and crowns. He dipped his toes in and now it's 30% of his business
Also, did you know that we have training classes that we offer we have one coming up. Why don't you come as my guest?
To just see what it's like no commitment just come check it out. If you feel like you're still concerned about doing this
No problem
Come as my guest
See what it's like
What's happening here when you're dealing with the warrior your goal is to
Encourage them to dip their toes into the water
Forget the sale if someone is worrying about the product and worrying about their confidence to deliver what you're saying they can deliver
Stop asking them for money
Instead you want to get them to say yes to something else and preferably something smaller like a class I
Was doing with a friend that had a
They're a little bit. Shy
Dead problems meeting new people
Dead problems talking to strangers if they met someone new they would stutter a little bit
And I was trying to help them break through this shyness or this confidence issue
So one of the things I remember doing and it worked like a charm
we were
we where we had some store something like fast food plays like a juice place or something we walk up and
we're like at the we're at the register, and I was like hey just
He's mentioning the girl was cute. It's like hey
just tell her how come it's not free today and say it like as loud as obnoxious as you can and
He's like oh, no. I'm never gonna do that she's you know they're gonna get insulted, so I went up
I said well, how come it's not free today, and you just make a dumb face almost everyone laughs
I've never said that to someone that I was supposed to pay and have them not laugh
He saw that happen she laughed we went to another place
He did it and that was the first step for him for talking to random people and now he talks to people all the time
But the goal was he was worried about looking like an idiot
So the goal is to say something look like an idiot and eventually you're not gonna worry anymore
Especially if there's no stakes on the whole thing so it works for selling it works for coffins works for everything
Let's keep going to the next type of side liner
Did the indifferent the skeptic the warrior the
Next side liner, and I'm sure you're all familiar with this side liner is the procrastinator
the people who keep telling you oh
I'm gonna get this one day, and then just keep keep you on the line and like deep down
I don't know about you
I kind of hate procrastinators because I feel like I'm wasting my time and then six months go by
Nine months go by you know at this point this guy is never gonna buy anything
But he keeps telling you he's gonna buy next month, and you keep doing
Because you don't want to lose the sale you want to be a good salesperson or whatnot
Here's the issue with the procrastinator
There's a reason why they're not pulling the trigger and they're gonna keep telling you they're gonna do it. They're never gonna do it
You have to first find out what that reason is even though. They're gonna say things like do I need this now or
Can I?
wait and see if something better comes along or will I feel stupid later for buying this the
Procrastinator actually has a little bit of every sideline or within them
They're procrastinating for a reason because if they 100% trusted you 100% trusted themselves
100% believed
That what they were buying was going to impact their business helped them sell more
implants or whatnot help boost their bottle if they believe this
There's no logical reason why they should say no
There's an emotional reason though, and you need to find out what that reason is
You need to figure out the fear that's holding them back, and then you need to allay that fear
Maybe you're talking to a general practitioner, and I was talking to again about six reps
And they said that general practitioners tend to be a lot more price sensitive than oral surgeons
So if
You know this to be true, and you present the cost
What did you do after you present the class now. I don't know if you guys offer
Money-back guarantees or trial runs or payment plans or whatnot?
But if you know cost is the issue and it's not that they're cheap because they don't want to give you money
But maybe they just don't have the money to give you right now if you know that's the issue
you need to stop what you're doing and
figure out how to show them that this makes sense and
provide them with options and reasons why
The cost is a non-issue. I sell downloadable training products and downloadable software products
This is what I do for my business
Right after I announce the price of my thing and they're not cheap some of these courses are two thousand three thousand dollars
But right after I announced that I always then quickly show them right off the bat. I've got a rock-solid
30-day guarantee you can try the product for 30 days risk-free if you feel like you don't get 10x the value from the training
Email the support team before the 31st day, and you'll get a full refund
It's really that simple, I'm just encouraging them not to buy it
But instead to try it and I use try on purpose
There's another research study where some conversion tests were done online because even though we can't
Hear what people saying they don't give us reasons why they're not buying we can do cool things like showing
500 people one page and showing a different 500 people a different page and we can start changing micro changing words
To see what's actually making people pull the trigger and they found that when you're asking people to give you money that
Hurts people want to spend money, so we don't ask them to buy anything instead we say try on purpose
Why don't you try this out I?
have a friend and I'm I
Think he's crazy for doing this
but he does it he sells an expensive piece of software to small businesses and
He says you could try it today, and if you don't fall in love with it in 90 days
We'll give you twice your money back
That's
Listen the risk-averse person to me thinks he's nuts
Because I just think that people are gonna buy it and then just get 100% return on their money in three months he
Sold thousands and thousands of copies of this software to
Date he's had only five people take him up on this double your money back
But what's interesting is she?
Tried it out it
Helped move that procrastinator who's worried about price and risk into buying and he's made significantly more sales because of it
Now I'm not saying you guys need to do something like this or something this crazy
But it might be something worth testing it might be something worth
Saying if you don't have something like this you can say I want to try this out for the next 30 customers
and then only offer it to 30 people and that's it so you can limit your risk and
then see what happens after 90 days if
You notice that nobody takes you up on it. Maybe this is something worth pursuing and scaling up to 60 people
These are the things you have to think about things that don't make sense or think we're seeing crazy
Actually rarely bite you in the in the ass I
Have one friend that offers a one year guarantee
This to me is also ridiculous because we found something who's very interesting about one-year guarantees and this is why I'll never offer them
Every year about a week and a half before Christmas
everyone refunds
there's a spike in refunds literally a week and a half before Christmas all the time and
That's because people are trying to buy Christmas gifts, and they're like
oh, they're viewing you as a bank and some people take advantage, but again you can run these tests you can see if it's
Generating more sales than you're losing and you can keep going
Another way to get a procrastinator to buy if you don't want to go the cost route is
To give them a small win give them a taste of what they're gonna achieve
when they stop procrastinating I
had a tooth that was a little wonky and at one appointment my
Dentist said we can fix that and make it look perfect
And I went through the whole
Stages of skepticism do I really need this can he really?
Deliver this what if it doesn't what if I don't like the way it were looks
What if I start stuttering all this weird stuff and he was like well I could just show you
how to how this tooth is going to look and he like applied this like magic putty to my tooth and
Showed me what the tooth is gonna look like and took a picture and I was like oh, I guess great
We scheduled that we scheduled that uh
That tooth procedure cuz he showed me he gave me a small
He showed me what the tooth was gonna look like after I did it and sold me right on the spot
cuz small wins convert
Now how does the information?
That I just shared with you
Help me create this booklet
When most people sell products they focus on their product they focus on the research they focus on the history of their company
Actually, you probably all have booklets, and if you open these booklets up. It's probably talking about how great your products are right?
I'll just go through the features. Here's this feature here's this feature goes through the product product product product product
when I sell products I don't even introduce the product I
Introduce the product later in those booklets I
Want to address all of the side liners first before I ask people to buy
So when I'm writing this sales copy. I'm not saying hey. Here's my new thing buy it
I'm not even saying. There is a new thing. I'm trying to connect first, and I want to give you an example
This is from one of my software products called zippy courses
Just to give you just a quick example it starts off with hey
I'm Derek Halpern the founder of social triggers and one of the biggest problems
I had in my business was this
How can I create my course and then deliver it to my students without headaches that come with setting up software and technology?
Now in my business one of the main reasons why people wouldn't buy was because they're worried about technology
And I addressed that in the firt in the first sentence. I then keep going in short. I had a course
I just wanted a piece of software that would allow me to sell and protect it without messing with
Software without messing with PHP without headaches, I just wanted to create
My course sell it and then start working with my students sound familiar at this point
I'm getting their attention by speaking to
Their innate side liners that are preventing them from wanting to buy
These people are entrepreneurs or teachers and many of them have online training courses
they want to sell and
I've done my research in advance about these side liners about these people and
I figured out what their hopes their dreams their fears are and I'm addressing those in my copy first
Before I even mention the fact that I'm selling anything
And it just keeps going it turns out
Me you and everyone else has these same fears and problems and the existing software in the market was either a too
Expensive or be too hard to use and that's why I parted with a world-class developer and it goes on
now I want to show you one thing I did here because I think this is something that you can start doing I
Immediately disqualified all my competitors by saying they're either more expensive or too hard to use
Its kind of true
but maybe it's a little bit more on the gray line I
Believe my software is easier to use which is why I created it, but I'm sitting there. I'm addressing these concerns
I'm making them realize that they might not have any other options available to them and this is the only option that they have and
This page goes on for 15 pages
15 pages I'm getting I'm asking people to read before I finally say hey by the way
introducing zippy courses you can buy this software I
Start by talking to people's emotions first, then I ask them to buy
now many of you do this by default when you're doing that one-on-one and
You're trying to find their hot buttons and you're trying to press those hot buns so you can make sure they're gonna get the sale
but
It just goes to show you that you can do it on paper, too
If you do the research first and one of the things I was hoping that
You would all take away from this presentation today is to know that no matter what sales
Call you're going on
the person you're talking to is going to be just like everybody else you've already talked to if
You go in there knowing that there are indifferent people. You know they're warriors. You know they're skeptics
You know they're procrastinators when you spot that into conversation
you need to address or change the way you're talking to that person as
So you start speaking their language?
So you start appealing to the things that they want most?
and
When you do do this when you know why people don't buy it actually gives you the opportunity to
Bring up a question that they might ask
before they ask it and
This is really important to do because if they ask the question
They're on the you know
They're being the aggressor and there you have to prove yourself to them
But if you raise the question before they even ask it they start to view you as someone that they can trust
Because they see that you're being honest with them
They see that you truly understand them as a customer
they don't view you as a salesperson at that point they start viewing you as a friends and
That's what most of us try to do when we're selling
We don't want to go in there and have people feel like we're just trying to get money from them
You want them to trust us if you start raising these questions before they have them
And you spot which sidelines you're talking to before they raise the questions, it's gonna be great
That's how you can walk out of the office with the sale now
I told you I spoke with Scott Lynch
Rep for Noble when I asked him how he deals with people who use low quality implants
I told you what he said he uses that metaphor where he talks about the girl going to college. I like this example
There's a great example of turning an indifferent into someone who cares I?
spoke with another rep John
Costantini I'm sorry if I mispronounced that and he was a territory rep as well
and he said he gets his foot in the door by offering a
three-part lunch-and-learn
This is really interesting to me because he went through this three-part lunch-and-learn with me what he did he leads his with his first
Presentation about communication and branding has nothing to do with
Noble bio care products whatsoever it's just about communication and branding he leads with value first
It gives him a chance to build that trust or credibility
These were valid first Denny follows over the presentation about implants and advanced options
This is very similar to what I do actually online. I give people a free ebook
I give them valuable content another video more content
And then I asked him to buy something
After I had the chance to build trust a lot of people who were in the sales world ask for the sale too soon
And if you ask for the sale too soon
You're never gonna get that sale a lot of other sales trains will tell you to ask
Questions and make sure you're trying to prescribe their problems, or we're not in double prescribed
well diagnose their problems and then prescribe the solution to the problem, but
Sometimes you don't even have that if you build that trust and likability first you're in a relationship business if you can build the relationship
Before you actually need them to buy something from you. It's gonna make your life a whole lot easier
Now you're gonna get a booklet that rehashes some of the big concepts that I covered in this presentation
And we're gonna have time for questions, but first I wanna say
Thank you to Scott Lynch, John Constantini Tim trap
Justin Behrens April Lee Katrina Haines Mike Van Daan coke Joe Day Tom Olsen for all making time for me before this meeting
to speak with me about
Orwell to answer some of the dumbest questions about a dental implant sales probably that they've ever heard
But I really appreciate the time they made so thank you. Thank you, and thank you everyone else
I appreciate it now if you want to learn more about what I do
I have a website called social triggers calm and my youtube channel, which is how April and?
Malkin's found me to begin with and you'll see me yelling on the camera
And I guess you might have no time for questions or time for questions. What do you think?
We good perfect, thank you